= reCAPTCHA

Author::    Sean Carey (www.picatcha.com), Jason L Perry (http://ambethia.com)
Copyright:: Copyright (c) 2011 Sean Carey, 2007 Jason L Perry
License::   {MIT}[http://creativecommons.org/licenses/MIT/]
Info::      http://www.picatcha.com
Git::       http://github.com/naryasece/picatcha/
Bugs::      http://github.com/ambethia/recaptcha/issues

This plugin is based on the work done by Jason L Perry for his reCaptcha plugin, to allow users to integrate {Picatcha}[http://www.picatcha.com] anti-abuse protection API to your project.

Instead of deciphering garbled text to prove that you are human, Picatcha allows your users to prove they are human by selecting images. 90% of text CAPTCHAs can be defeated by computers leaving your project vulnerable to spam and other internet abuse.

In your views, you can put a +picatcha_+tags method to imbed all the necessary Javascript and HTML into your form. To verify it, use the +verify_picatcha+ in your page's controller.

Before use you must configure Picatcha with your site's private and public keys. These can be obtained at {www.picatcha.com/signup}[http://www.picatcha.com/signup].

== About this fork

This fork adapts the original recaptcha gem to work with Picatcha's new Image CAPTCHA system.

== Rails Installation

Picatcha for Rails, add this to your Gemfile:

  gem "picatcha", :require => "picatcha/rails"

Or, it can be installed as a gem:

  config.gem "picatcha", :lib => "picatcha/rails"
  
Or, it can be installed manually (if you downloaded it from our website)

  gem install ./picatcha-0.0.1.gem

Or, as a standard rails plugin:

  script/plugin install git://github.com/ambethia/recaptcha.git

== Setting up your API Keys

There are multiple ways to setup your reCAPTCHA API key once you
{obtain}[http://recaptcha.net/whyrecaptcha.html] a pair.

=== Picatcha.configure

You may use the block style configuration. The following code could be placed
into a +config/initializers/picatcha.rb+ when used in a Rails project.

  Picatcha.configure do |config|
    config.public_key  = '(type in your public key here)'
    config.private_key = '(type in your private key here)'
  end

This way, you may also set additional options to fit Picatcha into your
deployment environment.

== Picatcha#with_configuration

If you want to temporarily overwrite the configuration you set with `Picatcha.configure` (when testing, for example), you can use a `Picatcha#with_configuration` block:

  Picatcha.configure(:public_key => '12345') do
    # Do stuff with the overwritten public_key.
  end

=== Shell environment

Or, you can keep your keys out of your code base by exporting the following
environment variables. You might do this in the .profile/rc, or equivalent for
the user running your application:

  export RECAPTCHA_PUBLIC_KEY  = '6Lc6BAAAAAAAAChqRbQZcn_yyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyy'
  export RECAPTCHA_PRIVATE_KEY = '6Lc6BAAAAAAAAKN3DRm6VA_xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx'

=== Per call

You can also pass in your keys as options at runtime, for example:

  recaptcha_tags :public_key => '6Lc6BAAAAAAAAChqRbQZcn_yyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyy'

and later,

  verify_recaptcha :private_key => '6Lc6BAAAAAAAAKN3DRm6VA_xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx'

This option might be useful, if the same code base is used for multiple
reCAPTCHA setups.

== To use 'recaptcha'

Add +picatcha_tags+ to each form you want to protect.

And, add +verify_picatcha+ logic to each form action that you've protected. Picatcha will return true for someone who passed, and false for someone who failed. 

=== +picatcha_tags+

Some of the options available:

<tt>:ssl</tt>::         Uses secure http for captcha widget (default +false+)
<tt>:noscript</tt>::    Include <noscript> content (default +true+)
<tt>:display</tt>::     Takes a hash containing the +theme+ and +tabindex+ options per the API. (default +nil+)
<tt>:ajax</tt>::        Render the dynamic AJAX captcha per the API. (default +false+)
<tt>:public_key</tt>::  Your public API key, takes precedence over the ENV variable (default +nil+)
<tt>:error</tt>::       Override the error code returned from the reCAPTCHA API (default +nil+)

You can also override the html attributes for the sizes of the generated +textarea+ and +iframe+
elements, if CSS isn't your thing. Inspect the source of +recaptcha_tags+ to see these options.

=== +verify_recaptcha+

This method returns +true+ or +false+ after processing the parameters from the reCAPTCHA widget. Why
isn't this a model validation? Because that violates MVC. You can use it like this, or how ever you
like. Passing in the ActiveRecord object is optional, if you do--and the captcha fails to verify--an
error will be added to the object for you to use.

Some of the options available:

<tt>:model</tt>::       Model to set errors
<tt>:attribute</tt>::   Model attribute to receive errors (default :base)
<tt>:message</tt>::     Custom error message
<tt>:private_key</tt>:: Your private API key, takes precedence over the ENV variable (default +nil+).
<tt>:timeout</tt>::     The number of seconds to wait for reCAPTCHA servers before give up. (default +3+)

  respond_to do |format|
    if verify_recaptcha(:model => @post, :message => "Oh! It's error with reCAPTCHA!") && @post.save
      # ...
    else
      # ...
    end
  end

== I18n support
reCAPTCHA passes two types of error explanation to a linked model. It will use the I18n gem 
to translate the default error message if I18n is available. To customize the messages to your locale, 
add these keys to your I18n backend:

<tt>recaptcha.errors.verification_failed</tt>:: error message displayed if the captcha words didn't match
<tt>recaptcha.errors.recaptcha_unavailable</tt>:: displayed if a timout error occured while attempting to verify the captcha

== TODO
* Remove Rails/ActionController dependencies
* Framework agnostic
* Add some helpers to use in before_filter and what not
* Better documentation
